Media Trash


		EXAMPLES

Mad Max Fury Road

		CINEMATOGRAPHY

Shot Types: ELS, LS, MS, MCU, CU, ECU
Movement: Tracking, Pan, Zoom, Tilt, Handheld
Composition: of matter in the subject
Angles: HCA, LCA, 
Focus
Exposure
Lighting


		THE ACTION GENRE

Action films provide audiences with a visceral thrill.

Where Horror films depict the trauma of violence, action films create excitement through mayhem and carnage.

The genre encompasses a wide variety of sub-genres; sport-action, super-hero action, cop-action, spy-action, disaster-action, war-action and comedy-action to name a few.


		CONVENTIONS OF THE GENRE

What the sub-genres share are two characteristics:

•An emphasis on masculine heroics, (irrespective of gender)
•and, over-the-top spectacle and violence
 
The action heroes face a potent villain who threatens to disrupt social stability.
Action films place the hero in increasingly thorny, and violent, confrontations.
Action sequences become the central part of the storyline, and the violent spectacle becomes the vehicle for showing character development
The depiction of violence action has become increasingly graphic, in part due to a desire to use the latest digital technologies.
Typically employs a brief action sequence is employed in the exposition to introduce the characters and their conflicts.
 
MASCULINE HEROICS: can be displayed by male or female heroes in the action genre. Masculine attributes are; stoic (emotionless under pressure), physically able, competitive, aggressive when needed.


		CODES OF THE GENRE

- camera movement to create a sense of urgency and action, contemporary action films use hand-held camera to create a sense of realism

- adjusted exposure and saturation of film

- fast-paced, witty one-liners accompanied by a dolly-in,the camera moves towards the subject

- whip pans - quick pans that result in blurring

- canted angles that make vertical lines appear diagonal

- orbital camera movement in which the camera circles around the subject - this has almost become a cliche of the action genre

- editing is used to create a sense of action - repeat cuts, slow motion, speed ramping

- wipe-by-cut - someone passes in front of the camera lens and the filmmaker cuts to another shot as someone leaves the frame

- non-diegetic sound to create a sense of action and excitement

- lens flares, sparks and explosions


		PAIR DISCUSSION

Describe how Imperator Furiosa is constructed as part of the mise-en-scene - facial expressions, body language, costume, performance.

Imperator Furiosa, She displays a lot of traits that are from the stereotypical muscular man.

One of the core assumptions of the action genre is that those with power are the most corrupt members of society. Using the video links above, explain how the actions and dialogue of Imperator Furiosa show her challenging the corruption of those in power.

‘Something about her that just stood up and said no’ - Charlize Thernon


		TIME CODES
0:00 - Slow Motion
0:18 - Slow Motion
0:24 - Slow Motion
0:38 - Slow Motion
1:03 - Slow Motion
1:05 - Slow Motion
1:20 - Slow Motion
1:28 - Slow Motion
2:27 - Slow Motion
2:40 - Slow Motion
2:53 - Slow Motion
